Seneca the younger was a philosopher who
held an important position in the Roman
Empire and is one of the major
contributors to the ancient philosophy
of stoicism Seneca once exchanged
letters with his friend Serena's on how
to free the mind from anxiety and worry
in a stoic way this dialogue is now
called the tranquila tatyana me which is
latin for only tranquility of the mind'
Senecas words are not only geared
towards caring less they also point out
what we should care about in order to
achieve tranquillity this video presents
you Senecas suggestions for calming the
mind so Serena's can become a bit more
serene first of all I want to thank two
new patreon supporters for helping me
out Thank You gage and thank you Kevin I
appreciate your support also I want to
thank vanitas Singh for a generous
PayPal donation thank you very much so
one day Serena's wrote a letter to his
friend Seneca explaining the mental
disturbances he suffers from during his
day-to-day activities
he asks Seneca to relieve him from his
trouble and thus Seneca wrote back a
letter containing his advice from this
advice I've drawn seven suggestions for
achieving tranquility here we go one
don't rely on hope Seneca observed that
many people are preoccupied with the
future and therefore their minds are
hardly in the present moment they are
filled with desires and directed to
fulfilling these desires they create an
image on how the future should work out
for them but when it doesn't they are
wretched such people are not only
structurally dissatisfied and plagued by
boredom they also rely entirely on hope
I quote Seneca they strive to attain
their prayers by every means they teach
and force themselves to do dishonorable
and difficult things and when their
effort is without reward they are
tortured by the fruitless disgrace and
grief not because they wished for what
was wrong but because they wished in
vane and quote I would say that amor
fati the practice of embracing fate is a
great antidote for those who rely on
hope pursuing goals no matter if they
are long-term or short-term goals while
embracing whatever the results may be
helps to focus on the present moment
instead of worrying about the outcome
and being disappointed when the future
doesn't bring what we hoped for to be of
service
surprisingly for some perhaps stoicism
doesn't encourage people to close
themselves off from society instead we
should participate in humankind in a way
that fits us and benefits others by
putting ourselves to practice and
helping our fellow human beings we kill
two birds with one stone firstly we put
our minds at work by being busy with a
certain task and secondly we are being
useful to others which generates a sense
of social connection which just feels
great although I must admit that current
society is way different than society
back then I think that being in service
all boils down to taking a good look at
ourselves making an inventory of our
skills and see how we use them to
benefit others me for example I would be
a lousy construction worker and I'm
quite bad at understanding technical
stuff on the other hand I have a keen
interest in philosophy and I know how to
create a video that I'm able to use
these skills to benefit other people
gives my life meaning deriving meaning
from your service no matter what you do
is a road to fulfilment how does this
lead to a calm mind well because we are
focused on our task we are less likely
to be distracted by things that don't
matter to us for example I noticed when
I'm fully immersed in creating these
videos there's no room to worry about
what's on a news or what the negative
people in my life said in the past why
should I I'm doing something with the
purpose of entertaining and benefiting
others striving for excellence in work
is only possible when living in a
present moment 3 choose your friends
wisely Seneca wrote and
quote nothing however gives the mind so
much pleasure as fond and faithful
friendship what a blessing it is to have
those two who's waiting hearts every
secret may be committed with safety
whose knowledge of you you fear less
than your knowledge of yourself who is
conversation soothes your anxiety whose
opinion assists your decision whose
cheerfulness scatters your sorrow the
very sight of whom gives you joy and
quote friends can be a great addition to
your life but we should be wise about
selecting the right friends to keep us
company some friendships simply revolve
around the negativity or are downright
toxic and as we know moods are
contagious
a true friend may be loyal and friendly
but when this friend is always upset and
takes great pleasure in complaining
about everything and basically does harm
by contact it's better to avoid that
person according to Seneca instead we
might want to choose people that are as
far as possible free from selfish
desires and vices in other words people
that uplift you rather than burden you
with their misery so how does this calm
the mind well a good and positive friend
will not burden you with negativity and
actually assist you in achieving
happiness by avoiding negative friends
their toxic behavior will not affect
your inner peace for don't engage in
useless Affairs Seneca writes about how
some people live their lives aimlessly
and spend their time going from place to
place like ants crawl through bushes
from twig to twig I think we can see
this happening a lot in today's day and
age with more distractions than ever
before we go from our smartphone to a
laptop from facebook to instagram and
when we are halfway a YouTube video
we're already bored and looking for
another one the key is to focus on a
certain task and let all our efforts be
directed towards that task and only
deviate from it when something important
gets in our way when I'm working for
example I usually put my phone in flight
mode and turn off social media also I
make a list of goals I want to
accomplish the next
they the night before this way my tasks
are clear and there's no need to think
about anything other than those tasks
which tremendously reduces worry
and thus calms the mind at the end of
the day it all boils down to attention
the ability to pay attention makes the
difference between mediocrity and
excellence five don't depend on opinions
of others when we act like we are
expected to act all the time we are not
living in accordance with our own
inherent nature many people however are
constantly putting up a facade because
they are expected to act in a certain
way because of their surroundings Seneca
gives the example of a funeral on which
people may perceive it disgraceful not
to weep when everyone is doing it in
such a case we are expected to fake our
grief if we in reality don't have the
inherent desire to weep but we only do
so to not be seen as a disgrace Sankar
wrote and I quote this evil of depending
on the opinions of others has become so
deeply implanted that even grief the
most natural thing in the world becomes
now a matter of pretend and quote when
we depend on the opinions of others we
aren't free it takes courage to free
ourselves from this bondage but when we
do we are truly brave because we have
taken off our masks and shows to the
world in our purest form yes we will be
open to ridicule but isn't it better to
be ridiculed because of who we truly are
then tortured by perpetual pretense six
balance solitudes and being in crowds
Seneca wrote that we should embrace both
solitude and being in crowds solitude
gives us the opportunity to retire in
ourselves and will make us long for
company being in company will make us
long for being alone the one relieves
the other and that's why the two things
must be combined
stoicism doesn't encourage being a
hermit but still does put emphasis on
solitary activities like journaling and
forms of meditation I would say that
solitude
just the battery to be in crowds and
calms the mind after being around people
while being in crowds connects us to a
fellow human beings bringing joy and
laughter socializing can be a great cure
to relief our minds from solitary
ruminations when I had a job at the bank
I enjoyed being around people while
longing for a quiet evening alone at the
same time in my current situation being
self-employed I habitually work in
crowded places like the public library
or the University campus just to be
around people and experiencing a sense
of connection also I do attend parties
and social gatherings even though I find
them tiresome so when I come home I
enjoy my solitude even more 7 give the
mind some relaxation now this is a
tricky one at least the method that
Seneca proposes Seneca argues that a
mind needs relaxation from time to time
and recommends washing away of Sorrows
and setting it free by the consumption
of wine now with my past experiences
with alcohol I do agree that alcohol
does a great job in making us merrier
and forgetting our sorrows Seneca does
advocate moderation though but today we
know very well that for some people
moderation just isn't an option because
they drink to get drunk didn't Seneca
also say that drunkenness is voluntary
madness now I do agree that we should
relax our minds from time to time and
for the people that don't want to
intoxicate themselves for it there are
other ways to find relief that didn't
exist back then how about going to the
cinema once in a while or playing a
video game nevertheless I still think
that one of the best things we can do to
achieve tranquillity is some form of
meditation
so these are seven suggestions by Seneca
for tranquillity thank you for watching
[Music]
you